README.md, before:

# LeanIX Release Docker Image Action

This very opinionated Github Action helps you to build a versioned docker image.

# Usage

```
uses: leanix/release-docker-image-action@master
id: build-image
with:
  name: leanix/foo             # Optional, by default the name of the Github repository is used
  path: docker/                # Optional, path to a folder containing a Dockerfile, by default . is used
  dockerfile: main.dockerfile  # Optional, path to a dockerfile if the filename is not "Dockerfile" (-f parameter of docker build)
  only-output-tags: true       # Optional, whether to only output the tags again and not build & push the image, by default false
  registry: acr                # Optional, registry to use, allowed values are docker-hub or acr, default is docker-hub
  enable-cache: true           # Optional, enable caching of docker layers to registry to speed up build process, default is true
```

This action requires that you also use the "leanix/secrets-action@master".

# Details

The action will use *git tags* to manage a version that is used to tag the docker image. It will search for tags called "VERSION-BRANCH-NUMBER" on the current branch, where BRANCH is the name of the branch and NUMBER is a version. If it does not find one, it will start with version 1.
If it finds tags, it will use the highest version to determain the next version. It only does that though, if the highest tag is not already pointing to the changeset currently build.

```
$ git tags
VERSION-MASTER-1
VERSION-MASTER-2
VERSION-MASTER-3
VERSION-FEATURE-HOOK-1333-ADD-ACTION-1
VERSION-FEATURE-HOOK-1333-ADD-ACTION-2
```

In addition the action will also push/update a docker tag for the latest version of each branch:
* feature/HOOK-1333-ADD-ACTION => feature-hook-1333-add-action-latest
* master => latest

To use the generated image tags in one of the following steps, use the output variables "tag" or "latest_tag":

```
run: echo ${{ steps.build-image.outputs.tag }} ${{ steps.build-image.outputs.latest_tag }}
```

# Output-only mode

If you only want to set or output the current tags e.g. because you build or deploy with a different job, simply reuse the action in output-only mode:

```
uses: leanix/release-docker-image-action@master
id: image-tags
with:
  only-output-tags: true
```

You can then again access the version tags with:
```
run: echo ${{ steps.image-tags.outputs.tag }} ${{ steps.image-tags.outputs.latest_tag }}
```

# Update Action

When you change the action code, use the script *update-dist.sh* to generate a compiled version of index.js containing all dependencies.

## Copyright and license

Copyright 2020 LeanIX GmbH under the [Unlicense license](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add option to skip pushing tags
This is particularly useful, when a repo has multiple builds and all of them are pushing the same tags, causing collisions

README.md, after:

# LeanIX Release Docker Image Action

This very opinionated Github Action helps you to build a versioned docker image.

# Usage

```
uses: leanix/release-docker-image-action@master
id: build-image
with:
  name: leanix/foo             # Optional, by default the name of the Github repository is used
  path: docker/                # Optional, path to a folder containing a Dockerfile, by default . is used
  dockerfile: main.dockerfile  # Optional, path to a dockerfile if the filename is not "Dockerfile" (-f parameter of docker build)
  only-output-tags: true       # Optional, whether to only output the tags again and not build & push the image, by default false
  registry: acr                # Optional, registry to use, allowed values are docker-hub or acr, default is docker-hub
  enable-cache: true           # Optional, enable caching of docker layers to registry to speed up build process, default is true
  push-tags: true              # Optional, enable pushing tags to the repository, default is true (useful for multi-repo to prevent pushing duplicated tags)
```

This action requires that you also use the "leanix/secrets-action@master".

# Details

The action will use *git tags* to manage a version that is used to tag the docker image. It will search for tags called "VERSION-BRANCH-NUMBER" on the current branch, where BRANCH is the name of the branch and NUMBER is a version. If it does not find one, it will start with version 1.
If it finds tags, it will use the highest version to determain the next version. It only does that though, if the highest tag is not already pointing to the changeset currently build.

```
$ git tags
VERSION-MASTER-1
VERSION-MASTER-2
VERSION-MASTER-3
VERSION-FEATURE-HOOK-1333-ADD-ACTION-1
VERSION-FEATURE-HOOK-1333-ADD-ACTION-2
```

In addition the action will also push/update a docker tag for the latest version of each branch:
* feature/HOOK-1333-ADD-ACTION => feature-hook-1333-add-action-latest
* master => latest

To use the generated image tags in one of the following steps, use the output variables "tag" or "latest_tag":

```
run: echo ${{ steps.build-image.outputs.tag }} ${{ steps.build-image.outputs.latest_tag }}
```

# Output-only mode

If you only want to set or output the current tags e.g. because you build or deploy with a different job, simply reuse the action in output-only mode:

```
uses: leanix/release-docker-image-action@master
id: image-tags
with:
  only-output-tags: true
```

You can then again access the version tags with:
```
run: echo ${{ steps.image-tags.outputs.tag }} ${{ steps.image-tags.outputs.latest_tag }}
```

# Update Action

When you change the action code, use the script *update-dist.sh* to generate a compiled version of index.js containing all dependencies.

## Copyright and license

Copyright 2020 LeanIX GmbH under the [Unlicense license](LICENSE).
